>> Steve Kinney: So let's just
look at some of these in practice.
So here I've got that little scratchpad.
So we can do something really simple
to demonstrate the point here,
which is there are really two things,
you could break into stubs also.
I'm gonna break this into two things,
mocks and spies.
A mock is a function that you plan
on just being a placeholder for
something else, right?
It replaces whatever you were gonna call.
A spy keeps what you had before, but
then wraps it in some abilities to
have some introspection on that.
Those are words.
Let's actually see it in practice because
otherwise, I could talk about this for
another hour,
you just stare at me blankly.
So let's look at some code.
Cool, so let's start with,
if you don't have the globals,
you can pull in this vi.
A lot of times, so I put the globals
on cuz, one, it was just and
to because that way you didn't
have to worry about it.
I tend to import them in every
test in my code base because
then the IntelliSense is better,
that's all.
You can do it either way.
So here we can do vi.spyOn.
So this is gonna say, hey,
here's an existing function that
exists that don't change it,
don't do anything different.
But I wanna look at it later, right?
I wanna keep an eye on this one.
So we're gonna take the console object and
we're gonna take this log method.
Are you familiar with console log?
It's the greatest debugging
tool ever invented.
So we'll spy on it, and
we'll call this our log spy, right?
And then, again, this is just a little
playground that we can play in.
So what we'll say is,
>> Steve Kinney: And that's the same
console log that we know and love.
Nothing has changed.
But now we can do stuff like,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's open it in here.
>> Steve Kinney: Right,
and so this test passes.
So our console log, let's see, we still
logged, it still did the thing, right?
But before it hit the actual console log,
we hugged it with our own little special
function, right, in logsSpy which is like,
go look at every call to console log and
just keep track of it, right?
And so console log2 have been called.
And so if we didn't call it,
it fails, right?
So if you had something that was
maybe writing to a canvas, right?
Or something along those lines or
maybe it is supposed to console log or
maybe it's supposed to trigger an alert or
something along those lines, right?
And you just wanna make sure
that that side effect happened,
you can do that, right?
So it should have called console log.
Okay, that one's good, what about,
>> Steve Kinney: So then you can also say,
okay, but
did it get called with the thing I think
it was supposed to get called with, right?
In this case, obviously,
in this dumb example, that will pass.
And so all that spy does is
it doesn't replace anything.
It doesn't change anything.
It just goes ahead and makes sure that
if your function had some kind of side
effect, the call to the outside world
that wasn't in the return value and
you need to make sure that it happened,
guess what a spy is good for.
It's good for
making sure that that happened.
And you can even do stuff like,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's say you're worried
about calling the API too many times,
right?
>> Steve Kinney: Right, these are all
effectively ways to make sure
that these side effects that you can't
get your hands on otherwise were called
the way that you think that
they should have been called.